The Cache‑Control header added by Spring Security tells
your browser to disable all caching.
Now, this at first might seem draconian as caching can improve performance.
But if caching is enabled, even after the user logs out of the application,
the computer and the browser could look up the user's
history or cached browser data.
Let's look at a potential scenario here.
Victoria logs into her crypto portfolio application while on holiday
using a public computer provided by the resort.
She views her account details and profile,
her portfolio, and once completed, she logs off.
Now a hacker could then view the cached data on that computer,
and voila, you can see Victoria's previously cached pages,
which contain her personal data and her portfolio positions.
This could then be used.
Now this data can then be used for identity theft or targeted phishing attacks.
Or it could be enough information to reset her password.
And now the hacker even knows the potential windfall of a
successful attack on Victoria's crypto position.
This is why, by default, Spring tells the browser to block everything.
Now if you do want this header removed, don't disable all the default headers,
but disable the Cache‑Control one specifically by using its
builder method on the header's builder.
Ideally, however,
if you require caching, then you should do it for
individual pages you want to enable caching for. Here, I
have a view that just returns prices.
It's not sensitive data,
so we can specifically tell Spring Security to enable cache
controls for this view only, and in Spring, we'll include the
appropriate cache headers for this page,
while all others continue to have the default cache settings of blocking everything.